this lecture is about the feedback in
the vector space model in this lecture
we continue talking about the feedback
in text retrieval particularly we're
going to talk about here back in the
back to space model as we have discussed
before in the case of feedback tasks of
attacks retrieval system is to learn
from examples to improve retrieval
accuracy we will have positive examples
those are the tokens that are assuming
to be relevant or chargeable to be
relevant or the talking that are nearby
users we also have negative examples
those are documents don't be non round
they can also be the document ever skip
by users the general method in the
vector space model for feedback is to
modify our query vector now we want to
place the query vector in a better
position to make the accurate and what
does that mean exactly
well if we think about the query vector
I would mean we have to do something to
the vector elements and in general that
would mean we might add new terms we
might adjust weight of all terms or
assign weights to new terms and as a
result in general of the query we have
more terms so we often call this query
expansion the most effective method in
the vector space model for feedback is
called walking feedback which was
actually proposed several decades ago so
the ideas are quite simple we
Illustrated this idea by using a
two-dimensional display of all the
documents in the collection and also the
query vector so now we can see the query
vector is here in the centre and these
are all the documents so when we use the
query vector and user similarity
function you'll find the most similar
documents we are basically drawing a
circle here and then these documents
would be basically the top
the documents and this process are
relevant documents and these are very
documents for example this relevant etc
and then these minuses are negative
documents like this so our goal here is
trying to move this query vector to some
position to improve the retrieval
accuracy by looking at this diagram what
do you think where should we move the
query vector so that we can improve the
retrieval accuracy intuitively where do
you want to move the query back to if
you want to think more you can pause the
video now if you think about this
picture you can realize that in order to
walk well in this case you want the
query vector to be as close to the
positive in vectors as possible that
means ideally you want to place the
query vector somewhere here or you want
to move the query vector closer to this
point now so what exactly is this point
well if you want these relevant
documents to be ranked on the top you
want this to be in the center of all
these relevant documents right because
then if you draw a circle around this
one you get all these relevant documents
so that means we can move the query
vector towards the centroid of all the
relevant document vectors and this is
basically the idea of knocking
of course you can consider the
centrality of negative documents and we
want to move away from the negative
knocking not geometric they were talking
about the moving the vector closer to
some other back and away from other
vectors image correctly it just means we
have this formula here you can see this
is a regional query vector and this
average basically is the centroid vector
of relevant documents when we take an
average of these vectors then we are
computing the centroid of these vectors
and similarly this is the average in
that now rather than the document
vectors so it's essentially of
non-random documents and we have these
three parameters here alpha beta and
gamma they are controlling the amount of
movement when we add these two actors
together we're moving the query of the
closer to the centroid I just want to
add them together when we subtracted
this part we kind of move the query
vector away from that centroid so this
is the main idea of rocket feedback and
after we have done this we will get a
new query vector which can be used to
score documents this new nuclear vector
will then reflect the move of this
original query vector toward this
relevant century vector and away from
the NAM relevant essentially left
okay so let's take a look at the example
this is the example that we have seen
earlier only that I in the display of
the actual document so I only show the
vector representation of these documents
we have five documents here and we have
two relevant documents here I they are
displayed in red and these are the term
vectors I have just assumed some tf-idf
weights a lot of terms we have zero
weights of course and these are negative
documents there are two here there is
another one here now in this rokkyo
method we first compute the centroid of
each category and so let's see look at
the center of the vector of the positive
documents now we simply just so it's
very easy to see we just add this with
this one the corresponding element and
then that's here and take the average
and then we're going to add the
corresponding elements and then just
take the average so we do this for all
these in the end what we have is this
one this is the average vector of these
two so it's a centroid of this tool all
right let's also look at the central
header of the negative documents and
this is basically the same we're going
to take the average of three elements
and these are the corresponding elements
in the three vectors and so on so forth
so in the end we have this one now in
the Rocio feedback method within the
combined of these with the original
query vector which is this so now let's
see how we combine them together well
that's basically this so we have a
parameter alpha controlling the original
key return weight that's one and then we
have beta to control the influence of
the positive centroid about the way
that's 1.25 that comes from here right
so this
goes here and we also have this negative
weight here
controlled by gamma here in this way
that has come from of course the
negative accentuated here and we do
exactly the same for other terms each is
for one home and this is our new vector
and we're going to use this new query
vector this one to ran the documents you
can imagine what would happen right
because of the movement that this one
would match these rare documents much
better because we move that this vector
closer to then and it's going to open
eyes these black documents and it's now
rather than the documents so this is
precisely what we want from feedback now
of course if we apply this method in
practice we will see one potential
problem and that is the original query
has only four terms that are nonzero but
after we do queries making you can
imagine we have many times that would
have nonzero weight so the calculation
would have to involve more terms in
practice we often truncate this vector
and only retain the terms with highest
weight so let's talk about how we use
this method in practice I just mentioned
that we often truncated back to consider
only a small number of words that have
highest weights in the century vector
this is full efficiency concept I also
say that here that negative examples or
non relevant examples can not be very
useful especially compared with positive
examples now you can think about why
one reason is because negative logins
tend to distract the query in all
directions so when we take the average
it didn't really tell you where exactly
should be moving to whereas positive
documents tend to be clustered together
and they were point you to consist in
the direction so that also means that
sometimes we don't have to use those
negative examples but note that in some
cases in difficult queries where most
top element results are negative a
negative feedback factor is very useful
another thing is to avoid overfitting
that means we have to keep relatively
high weight on original query terms why
because the sample that we see in
feedback is a relatively small sample we
don't want to overly transfer the small
sample and the original query terms are
still very important those terms are
hyping by the user and the user has
decided that those terms are most
important so in order to prevent us from
overfitting or drifting the top with
preventing the topic drifting you do the
bias toward the feedback examples we
generally would have to keep a pretty
high weight on the original tons so it's
safe to do that and this is especially
true for pseudo elements feedback and
this method can be used for both
relevance feedback and super randomness
feedback in the case of pseudo feedback
up the pram in the beta should be set to
a smaller value because the relevant
examples are assumed to be random
they're not as reliable as in relevance
feedback in the case of relevance
feedback we obviously could use a larger
value so those parameters they have to
be set and very quickly and the rockeo
method is usually robust and effective
it's it's still a very popular method
for feedback
you